---
layout: post
title:  "Catapult"
<<<<<<< HEAD
date: 2015-11-19
sources: [EE.15, Xanathar.150]
tags: [artificer, sorcerer, wizard, level1, transmutation]
=======
date:   2015-11-19
source: EE.15
tags: [sorcerer, wizard, level1, transmutation]
>>>>>>> fad25f008430f031f16b0eb4a6b691e869f24366
---

**1st-level transmutation**

**Casting Time**: 1 action

**Range**: 60 feet

**Components**: S

**Duration**: Instantaneous

<<<<<<< HEAD
Choose one object weighing 1 to 5 pounds within range that isn’t being worn or carried. The object flies in a straight line up to 90 feet in a direction you choose before falling to the ground, stopping early if it impacts against a solid surface. If the object would strike a creature, that creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the object strikes the target and stops moving. When the object strikes something, the object and what it strikes each take 3d8 bludgeoning damage.
=======
Choose one object weighing 1 to 5 pounds within range that isn't being worn or carried. The object flies in a straight line up to 90 feet in a direction you choose before falling to the ground, stopping early if it impacts against a solid surface. If the object would strike a creature, that creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the object strikes the target and stops moving. In either case, both the object and the creature or solid surface take 3d8 bludgeoning damage.
>>>>>>> fad25f008430f031f16b0eb4a6b691e869f24366

**At Higher Levels.** When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the maximum weight of objects that you can target with this spell increases by 5 pounds, and the damage increases by 1d8, for each slot level above 1st.
